
Polishing sign up and user flow:

Right now you can sign up using metamask or magic.link - this immediately logs you in. I'd like to do something a bit fancier. Things I want to do:

1) public profile entity view - It is important to understand that a user has one or more party identity objects that represent themselves and that are the canonical idea of that 'user'. Most social networks keep users in a separate table, but we treat users as just another entity like any other artifact in the system, and that entity can be viewed - it will provide a default public view similar to viewing any other object. So we will want a public view of a party that is fairly simple for now.

2) private profile - On login we throw the users to a reserved private user profile page - let's put this at /profile or ?path=profile depending on our router style config. This private profile area actually does a few onboardy type chores for new users as well - so it can be helpful for that first time experience as well as providing a personal analytics and favorites view of your own experience.

3) In your private /profile page we will show a list of 'party' type entities you have created. I really only need a user to have one, and I don't need to even show more than one, but we do want to encourage them to at least have one 'party' entity that they created. Users in this system should always have at least one party type entity that is their 'home page' (similar to Unix in a sense). If they haven't created even one yet then this page should be encouraging them to do this. I think we would show a list of party entities they have and let them edit it with the entity form. Or if they have none then invite them to make their first. I guess we have to search the database for entities of type party of the same authData.address or something? I think there should be a small tidy clientside api for all of these kinds of function calls to consolidate queries in one place.

4) Entity form editing in general: As an aside the entity form itself deserves more thought - I see it as a one stop shopping for creating or revising entities. I think often other pages will be bringing it up as a modal overlay often. The entityform should be in general fairly powerful, it should be able to come up as a separate page or an overlay, it should be able to be pre-configured for certain modes, there are some variations in arguments for different kinds of entities you can build (party, place, post, group), also it can create new or edit, and in some cases we may want to restrict the form to not let you change the type. The main reason to bring up the form is to help you find a unique slug for your identity, since the form will have to be in charge of helping the user avoid using an already existing slug when creating or even editing an entity (except do not disallow an entity to retain its own current slug obviously).

5) On the /profile page we should show a list of their recent posts (on this new private user profile page). We may even want a table here showing analytics and activity on a given post, how many people viewed it and engagement and so on. We may even want general analytics such as total number of posts created, total responses - some of this data we don't have yet but it would be nice to stub out something that feels like a rich set of analytics. I think we can at least show their recent posts - and again I'd like all of these kinds of queries to be in a shared common api on the client side just so that we abstract away low level operations and consolidate the kinds of high level queries we want to do.

6) On the /profile page later when we allow favorites we will want to show these also. In the backend we're probably going to implement like favorites with a separate table called 'relations' but I don't think our database exposes this yet on the server side - so this will be fake for now. We will circle back to this shortly once the server is tightened up.

7) On your private /profile We should have a section or component for basic settings, such as allow location on map, light dark mode, imperial metric coordinates.
